Undergraduate MICROPROGRAMS Microprograms are short programs designed to provide specialized training to students looking to gain new skills that open up employment opportunities in Quebec’s key sectors. Microprograms normally last one or two terms and range from nine to fifteen credits. Programs Eligibility and requirements Application process Programs Fundamentals of Digital Filmmaking In this program, you will explore the fundamentals of film production, including filmmaking's creative and practical aspects and how to use various tools and technologies. The microprogram will also help you develop the skills to critique and evaluate the formal and contextual aspects of cinematic work. View program details Indigenous Land-Based Education In this microprogram, you will gain the skills, knowledge and attitudes that are unique to land-based programs though Indigenous ways of knowing. Indigenous and non-Indigenous learners will have opportunities to participate in land-based activities and examine the theoretical underpinnings of Indigenous-led, land-based teaching. View program details Screenwriting and Film Producing Learn the art of scriptwriting from instructors who are also professional scriptwriters and filmmakers and discover the ins and outs of film producing including how to choose a film project, ensure its development from script to production, how finance it and how to distribute it. View program details Web Design and User Interface This microprogram will allow you to develop a foundation in visual literacy and technical skills in web design, with emphasis on a historical and contemporary overview of web design and networked environments. There is an overarching focus on user interface and user experience. View program details Admissions We welcome candidates with non-traditional career paths or those who do not necessarily possess a university or college degree. Eligibility and requirements Open to Canadian citizens and permanent residents only. Students already registered in an undergraduate program at Concordia are ineligible. You do not need a previous degree or diploma to be accepted. Application process Please check program availability for the term, before you start your application. You’ll need a Concordia Netname to start an application. Create a Netname account . Once you have a Netname, complete an application . Select “Undergraduate Microprogram” from the list to get started. Include your supporting documents: Letter of intent Curriculum vitae (cv) Proof of your status in Canada Have a valid credit card available to pay the application fee of $40 CAD. Please note: we accept the following credit cards: Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, JCB, Diners Club, and UATP. The application deadline varies by microprogram. Please check your program of interest for details. You may upload documents to your application even after submitting it. However, we cannot complete the assessment of your application until we receive all required documents.