Prepare to apply You are ready to apply if you have: Chosen a program Checked the program availability Reviewed the requirements Checked the application deadlines Are you ready? APPLY NOW Program choices: What you need to know You can put three program choices on your application . Your first choice should be your top choice. If you don’t get accepted to your first choice, we’ll automatically consider your other choices, in the order that you specify. If admitted to a program, your remaining choices will be cancelled. Pick a new subject for each choice. For example, don't choose the specialization and major in the same subject (e.g. Psychology). If you don't meet the requirements for the specialization, we'll automatically consider you for the major instead. Consider programs with different admissions requirements. Avoid selecting programs that have exactly the same requirements. Consider including a less competitive program among your choices . This will help maximize your chances! Already applied? FIND OUT WHAT'S NEXT Official application deadlines We consider complete applications year round and give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. FALL TERM March 1 is the deadline to apply for fall term entry. International students are encouraged to apply by February 1 to allow sufficient time for CAQ and study permit application processing. Late applications will be considered if places are still available. Please check program availability for the term, before you start your application. WINTER TERM November 1 is the deadline to apply for winter term entry. International students are encouraged to apply by September 1 to allow sufficient time for CAQ and study permit application processing. Not all programs are available for winter term entry. Please check program availability for the term, before you start your application. Submitting documents We recommend uploading your admissions documents rather than sending them by mail to prevent delays in the assessment of your application. Your deadline to submit proof of English proficiency Please keep in mind that we cannot complete the assessment of your application until we receive your English proficiency test scores. If we are missing your test scores, we will send you an email requesting them. You will have three weeks to submit your English proficiency test scores. If you are unable to meet that deadline, but you are scheduled to take an English proficiency test , please upload a copy of your scheduled or planned test date. Deadlines for additional program requirements Many programs have departmental requirements that you must satisfy in addition to Concordia’s minimum admission requirements. Additional requirements might include portfolios, auditions, interviews, letters of intent, etc. You must make arrangements to submit these additional requirements with the department you apply to. Please consult the specific program page for more information on these requirements. Academic year timetable The academic year is based on three sessions: summer, fall, and winter. Term Dates Important notes Summer May – August Start of the academic year. However, you cannot enter an undergraduate program during the summer term Fall September – December (15 weeks) Regular point of entry for most undergraduate programs Winter January – April (15 weeks) Certain programs accept students in January , based on availability Virtual Q&A sessions for undergrad programs Questions about applying to an undergraduate program? Join our recruiters every Thursday from 12 to 1 p.m. Register now Newly accepted to Concordia? Congratulations! Find out what to do next! Welcome Guide for New Concordians