John Molson’s MBA program is ranked among the top 100 in the world The Economist’s annual Which MBA? survey also placed the program fifth in Canada July 5, 2022 | By Katie Malazdrewicz Concordia’s John Molson MBA program remains in the top 100 globally in the 2022 edition of The Economist’s annual Which MBA? survey . The program ranked fifth in Canada, making the list alongside a select few other Canadian business schools. “We are particularly proud of our performance in the diversity of recruiters category,” notes Anne-Marie Croteau , dean of the John Molson School of Business . “Our focus on relevant and practical training, as well as case-based learning, allows students to tailor the program to suit their interests and professional goals. These also allow for a broad variety of career paths to be accessible.” Each year The Economist surveys thousands of MBA students around the world to assess why they decided to enrol in a full-time MBA program. The weightings used by the Which MBA? survey are based on the importance students themselves place on different criteria, such as diversity of recruiters, salary, potential to network and overall educational experience, among many others. Khalil Guliwala: “John Molson’s close alumni community ensures graduates are members of a group of global leaders.” “John Molson has a stellar reputation as a world-renowned business school,” notes recent alumnus Khalil Guliwala (MBA 22). “Its emphasis on hands-on experience helps managers get ready to face the challenges of tomorrow. And its close alumni community ensures graduates are members of an elite group of global leaders.” Additionally, the 2022 QS Executive MBA Rankings recently placed the John Molson Executive MBA program within the top 100 internationally. The program’s strongest characteristic was its executive profile, which ranked third in North America. View the full The Economist Which MBA? ranking. Learn more about the John Molson MBA program . Related topics teaching rankings business You might also like: Concordia remains tops under 50 in Canada