LIFE IN MONTREAL Photo by Lucas Mesquita What draws people to Montreal its high-energy, creative vibe a welcoming, inclusive environment the diversity of a globally connected city a joie de vivre you can feel photo © Frédérique Ménard-Aubin A vibrant cultural scene The city attracts some of the best acts on the planet to festivals like Osheaga , Just for Laughs , Francos de Montréal , the Montreal International Jazz Festival , Nuits d'Afrique . . . the list goes on. Montreal has also become a destination for emerging artists from across Canada. People from around the world call Montreal home, and that diversity of influences makes for an incredibly rich cultural experience, from food and dining to music, cinema and literature. It's a place that will open your eyes — and your mind. photo © Canadian Tourism Commission, Pierre St-Jacques Language Montreal is the second-largest French-speaking city in the world after Paris and an ideal place to learn or perfect your French . Since Concordia is an English-language university, English speakers will feel right at home on campus. Many Montrealers are bilingual — or speak even more than two languages! If English is not your first language, you'll be in good company: about half of Concordians are studying in a language other than their mother tongue . Neighbourhood life Downtown, the Plateau, Verdun, Parc⁠-⁠Ex, Rosemont, St⁠-⁠Henri, Villeray . . . just some of Montreal's many distinctive neighbourhoods , each with their own vibe and unique cafés, grocery stores and green spaces. Laval, the West Island, the South Shore . . . much of the Greater Montreal area is also within easy commuting distance from downtown by public transit . You'll have lots of options when it comes to renting an apartment . Four colourful seasons Montrealers love to enjoy our beautiful surroundings all year round. FALL — average daily temperature 13°C walking on Mont Royal WINTER — average daily temperature -4°C dancing outdoors at Igloofest SPRING —  average daily temperature 10°C running along the Lachine Canal SUMMER — average daily temperature 25°C paddle boarding on the St. Lawrence River Innovation and industry Art in a cultural nexus. Engineering in an aerospace capital. Tech and digital arts in a gaming centre. The city is a hub of education and research, and home to four major universities. Concordia's centres of expertise mirror those of Montreal itself, in preventive health and well-being, aerospace , biotechnology , cybersecurity , and smart buildings and cities . Our students benefit from exposure to an extended network of startups , corporations, non⁠-⁠governmental organizations and think tanks. photo © Bernard Fougères and Jean-François Lejeune Design and the creative economy More people in Montreal work in creative jobs than anywhere else in the world after London. UNESCO named us a City of Design and the arts, design and architecture are front and centre in daily life. Based in Montreal: Cirque du Soleil , les Grands Ballets Canadiens de Montréal , the National Film Board of Canada and the Canadian Centre for Architecture . Our next-door neighbour, the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts , and the Musée d’art contemporain de Montréal put on world-class exhibitions. Concordia also offers artists unparalleled opportunities to reach the public, with the Leonard and Bina Ellen Gallery , FOFA Gallery and VAV Gallery . Transportation Getting around is easy and inexpensive. Montrealers benefit from an extensive public transit system , including the metro (our subway). A free shuttle bus connects our two campuses. Montreal is officially the most bicycle-friendly in North America, with 700 kilometres of bike paths. The public bike sharing system Bixi was born here. And the city itself is very walkable. Your transportation options Programs and admissions – explore more Undergraduate studies Learn more about Bachelor’s degrees and undergraduate student life. Graduate studies Learn more about Master’s and Doctoral degrees and graduate student life. Continuing education Learn more about non⁠-⁠credit courses and certificates and workshops. Executive education Learn more about leading-edge programs and coaching.