Health Services Clinic Health Services is your on-campus wellness clinic and health promotion centre. Dec. 4 - 8: No doctor walk-ins Please note there are no walk-ins available with doctors from Dec. 4 - 8, 2023. Booked appointments and nurse walk-ins will still be available during this period. Book an appointment Walk-ins Access, insurance & cancellations Our services Contact information Book an appointment To book an appointment at the Sir George Williams Campus ( GM-200 ), call 514-848-2424 ext. 3565. We also offer walk-ins. To book an appointment at the Loyola Campus ( AD-131 ), call 514-848-2424 ext. 3575. The appointment phone line opens at 9 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday and at 10 a.m. on Thursday. The appointment line will close when the volume of requests that the clinic can attend to has been reached. For services outside of daily operating hours or when the clinic is full, please review our medical support services list . When you call the appointment line, leave a message including your name, Concordia ID and phone number. Your call will be returned within one-business day. Appointments will primarily take place in-person. If appropriate, follow up appointments may take place virtually (i.e., by phone or video). Either way, you will need to create a Virtual Care at Concordia account. Creating a Virtual Care at Concordia account After booking your appointment, you will receive an email with instructions to create a Virtual Care at Concordia account. The email will come from “Campus Wellness and Support Services.” If you do not receive this email, please check your junk/spam folder before calling the clinic. In the email you receive, click “Please click here to visit your account.” Virtual Care at Concordia app We strongly recommend you download the secure Virtual Care at Concordia app onto your personal computer, tablet or phone. Download the Virtual Care at Concordia app: Google Play Apple If you’re using a Concordia computer, you will need IITS’ assistance to install the mobile app onto Concordia’s computer. IITS can be reached at: (514) 848-2424, ext. 7613 and at help@concordia.ca . Virtual Care at Concordia for browser If you choose to use a browser (instead of downloading the mobile app), Virtual Care at Concordia works best on Google Chrome, so please have the most up-to-date version of this browser installed. You may experience technical issues with other browsers such as Safari, Firefox or Internet Explorer. Completing and submitting your forms Watch this video for more information on how to complete and submit forms. Once you create your Virtual Care at Concordia account, you will be directed to download all the medical or administrative forms that have been assigned to you. If any additional forms are assigned to you at a later time, you will receive an email with a link to download them. Download the forms onto your desktop to complete and save them . Do not complete the form directly on the tab because your progress won’t be saved . Make sure to add your information into all the required fields. Please use your legal name for all official forms. On the appointment platform, use the name you prefer to be addressed by. Some forms require a signature. Please do not type your name in free text . Watch this video for step-by-step instructions on how to add your signature to a form You must complete and upload all medical forms at least 24 hours before your appointment. Failure to do so will result in the cancellation of your appointment. How to prepare for a virtual appointment with Health Services Virtual Care at Concordia FAQ I haven’t received an email to confirm my appointment. What should I do? Please check your “Junk” or “Spam” folders. If you don’t find the email there, please contact Health Services at 514-848-2424 ext. 3565 to verify if we have the correct email address on file for you. Who can I call for technical support? For technical issues with uploading forms or using the platform, please contact OnCall Health Support at support@concordiau.zendesk.com , use the virtual chat , or call 1-833-550-2027. If you have any questions about your medical appointment (e.g. you need to change an appointment time, or you need to contact your clinician, or about the content of any form), please contact Health Services (514-848-2424 at ext. 3565). Virtual Care at Concordia is powered by OnCall Health. For further questions about the platform and articles on troubleshooting, please visit the OnCall Health Patient Portal . How do I add my signature to a form? Please do not type your name in free text in the signature field. Watch this video for step-by-step instructions on how to add your signature to a form. How many forms should I expect to receive? If the appointment is an initial visit you will receive a health questionnaire form. Depending on the type of insurance you have, you may receive multiple additional forms or none at all. For follow-up appointments, your insurance coverage will also determine whether you have to complete additional forms. If you have any further questions about your forms, please contact Health Services at 514-848-2424 at ext. 3565. How do I complete the forms? If you need technical assistance to complete and upload forms , please consult the video above, or contact OnCall Health Support at support@oncallhealth.ca or 1(888) 687 9288 ext. 1. If you have a question about how to complete the medical information on the forms assigned to you, please contact Health Services 514-848-2424 at ext. 3565 and press #1 or #2, then press #3. For my appointment, do I need to log on to Virtual Care at Concordia or wait for a health professional to call me first? A health professional will call you by phone within a 2-hour window beginning when your appointment is scheduled. Please have your account ready to go, but do not connect to the online platform until your health professional tells you to. How is my confidentiality maintained? Video appointments will be held through Virtual Care at Concordia , a highly secure online platform that is powered by OnCall Health. It meets the government of Quebec’s high requirements for information security in the medical field. All phone appointments are held through secure landlines. While Health Services has taken every precaution to ensure confidentiality, some things are outside our control such as the security of a patient’s internet connection or electronic device (computer, laptop etc.). Patients should take all necessary measures to assure the security of their devices. We recommend using a secure, stable, private and password-protected Wi-Fi connection and advise against the use of public Wi-Fi. We also recommend that your device is protected against spyware, malware and viruses by having an up-to-date and active anti-virus program installed. Health Services is not responsible for the loss of information caused by technical failures related to the patient's device, software or internet provider. Patient records are maintained in a manner that strictly conforms to the regulations and recommendations of the Ordre des infirmières et infirmiers du Québec, the Collège des médecins du Québec, and the Ordre des Psychologues du Québec. Confidential records are stored in paper-based patient files that are maintained within the clinic’s premises. The day-of your appointment For an in-person appointment Please present at the clinic 15 minutes before your appointment to register at the front desk. If you have respiratory symptoms (e.g. cold or flu) we encourage you to do a rapid COVID-19 test before going to the clinic. Inform the staff of your result when you arrive. If you test positive for COVID-19 , you can also call 8-1-1 to find resources in the community. If you need any forms filled out, or if you have any results or reports you wish to add to your file or discuss with your doctor, please make sure to bring a paper version to your appointment. When entering the clinic: Wash your hands. Put on a new mask (this is required in all health care facilities in Quebec). Take a ticket from the screen by the entrance and wait for your number to be called. For a virtual appointment Virtual appointments with nurses, doctors or health promotion specialists are conducted by phone, with the option to transfer to video. A health professional will call you by phone within a 2-hour window, beginning at the time that your appointment is scheduled. Please have your Virtual Care at Concordia account ready to go, but do not connect to the online platform unless you are instructed to do so. Before your appointment, ensure you have a secure and stable internet connection. Generally, a home internet connection is more secure than an open-guest Wi-Fi connection. Check to see that you are in a private space, where you can talk freely with your healthcare provider without concerns of being overheard. Walk-ins Walk-in services are available at Health Services’ GM-200 location. Spaces are limited and available on a first-come, first-served basis with either a doctor or a nurse. Walk-in appointments cannot be booked over the phone. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday: Walk-ins with nurses and doctors begin at 9 a.m. Thursdays: Walk-ins with nurses and doctors begin at 10 a.m. Fridays: Walk-ins with nurses only begin at 9 a.m *Please note that doctor availability is subject to change If you have respiratory symptoms (e.g. cold or flu) we encourage you to do a rapid COVID-19 test before going to the clinic. Inform the staff of your results when you arrive. If you test positive for COVID-19 , you can also call 8-1-1 to find resources in the community. When to go to walk-in Walk-in services are available for time-sensitive medical concerns (for example, urinary tract infections, ear pain, symptoms of or exposure to a sexually transmitted infection, etc.). Note that Concordia Health Services cannot provide many of the services available in hospital emergency rooms (e.g., electrocardiogram, cardiac monitoring, X-ray, casts, IV treatments, etc.). Find emergency services in the community. Many medical issues are better managed with a longer, booked appointment (for example, chronic health issues, the investigation of ongoing symptoms, vaccine reviews, prescription renewals; etc.). Call or visit the clinic to book an appointment. Access, insurance and cancellations Access to Health Services Please note that this information is meant as a general guideline. Call Health Services for complete information about eligibility and access. Health Services is available to registered Concordia students who pay student services fees and employees who receive this benefit through their collective agreements. Graduating students When you finish your final term at Concordia, your access to Health Services will also end. For example, if your classes end after the winter term, your access to Health Services ends on the last day of the winter term. You can consult the academic calendar to find the exact dates ( undergraduate calendar , graduate calendar) To ensure a smooth transition of your healthcare, we suggest that you take the following steps: Book a final appointment at Health Services. If you are being followed by Health Services for specific concerns or ongoing care, we recommend booking a wrap-up appointment during your final term. This last visit will include any prescription renewals and a review of test results. As appointments are based on health professionals’ availability, we recommend booking this appointment early in your final term. Some medical treatments and investigations require follow-up and will not be initiated just prior to graduation. Start looking for other resources in the community for continuity of care before your access ends. You can consult our medical resource list for options. Using Health Services FAQ I am a student. Can I use Health Services? Yes, if you are currently registered as a student (undergraduate, graduate, international, part-time, or cont-ed). If you were registered in the preceding academic term, call to clarify whether you can still use Health Services. Students will be asked to provide a valid Concordia student ID when registering for an appointment. You will also need to provide your Medicare card or international student insurance card to pay the doctor (this is separate from the Concordia Student Health and Dental Plan). I am a student/staff/faculty member at Concordia. Can my family member use Health Services? No. Health Services is only available to students who have paid Student Services fees and to employees as part of their benefit packages. I am an alumnus/alumna. Can I use Health Services? No. Health Services is only available to students who have paid Student Services fees and to employees as part of their benefit packages. I’m from out of province. Why should I use Health Services? For out-of-province patients living in the Greater Montreal Area, Health Services is one of the only clinics that accepts out-of-province Medicare cards. At most other clinics, you will have to pay up-front and get reimbursed by your province. At Health Services, we do this for you. However, you still have the responsibility to maintain your provincial health coverage by informing your provincial health office that you are studying in Quebec. Can I use Health Services if I opted out of the Concordia Student Health Insurance Plan? Yes. If you paid the Student Services fee, you have access to Health Services even if you opted out of CSU’s or GSA’s Health Insurance Plan. Insurance at Health Services When calling Health Services, be sure to have your Concordia ID and valid health insurance card ready. Your insurance is either your valid Medicare card (such as RAMQ or OHIP) or proof of insurance coverage through private insurance plans such as Blue Cross and Cigna. For your health and safety, it is essential that you have valid health insurance at all times. In exceptional circumstances, if you don't have a valid Medicare or health insurance card, we will charge you for the appointment with a family doctor and provide a receipt. You can contact your insurance provider for reimbursement. You must have valid health insurance to access psychiatric services. You do not need to provide your Medicare card or health insurance card to see a nurse or health promotion specialist. Most services are covered by provincial Medicare plans, private health insurance and student services fees. A small number of fees are not covered and must be paid by the patient. Please consult fees for non-insured services [PDF] for more information. Learn more about insurance coverage. Cancellation policy If you wish to cancel your appointment, please call us at 514-848-2424 ext. 3565 as soon as possible. View the full cancellation policy. Our services Our services Our services include: Testing , including STI testing, gynaecological testing and Pap tests, blood tests and more. Vaccination Contraception Prescription renewal Management of chronic conditions, such as diabetes, Crohn’s, asthma or arthritis Mental health assessments and psychiatry We also provide referrals to specialists and for diagnostic testing if needed. To learn more, book an appointment to speak with a nurse. We do not provide dental care or vision care. Our staff includes nurses, family physicians, psychiatrists and health promotion specialists. Nurses Assess your symptoms, run tests as needed and start certain treatments Assess your sexual health needs, run or order tests as needed, start certain treatments, teach you about your contraception options and in certain circumstances even give you a prescription to start birth control Educate you about your condition and proposed treatments Provide you with health education about disease management (e.g., how to manage a new or chronic medical condition independently over the long term or until you recover) Teach you how to take care of yourself and manage your symptoms during common, self-limiting conditions such as a cold or the flu Assess your vaccine status through our Routine Adult Vaccine Program and administer vaccines as needed. Refer you to other resources both within Concordia as well as resources outside the university. Family doctors Provide counselling, follow-up and ongoing care, by telephone or telemedicine, with in-person examinations arranged if necessary Assess your health Order tests that are needed to determine a diagnosis (what condition you are sick with) Prescribe treatments to help you manage your condition and get better Refer you to specialists, if needed Provide trans care, including hormone therapy Psychiatrists Psychiatrists work closely with our general practitioners. If needed, a general practitioner will refer to psychiatry for specific assessments and treatments. Health promotion specialists Health promotion specialists can help you on your journey to healthier living such as eating healthfully , achieving a healthy weight and quitting smoking/vaping . This service is available to Concordia students, staff and faculty and is free of charge. Our services FAQ I’m sick/injured. Can I have an appointment today? Health Services offers both day-of walk-ins and booked appointments, subject to availability. If you are experiencing an emergency, call 9-1-1 or consult our crisis resources . For more urgent care services, view our medical support service list. Can Health Services renew my prescription? Yes. Your pharmacist can tell you how many refills you have left. When you have 6-8 weeks of medication remaining, call the clinic to book an appointment with a doctor.  Please plan ahead to ensure you have adequate medications. If you do not have enough medication to last until your doctor’s appointment, your pharmacist may be able to extend your prescription until your next doctor’s appointment [PDF]. How often should I book an appointment with my doctor? In the past, many doctors recommended an annual physical or 'check-up'. However, medical organizations are now moving away from the yearly exam recommendation; research has found that they are not necessary and can cause unnecessary testing and worries. You may need an appointment with your doctor: When you are sick When you have a symptom that could mean illness To manage chronic or ongoing conditions To check on the effects of a new medication To help with risk factors like smoking or obesity For prenatal care, if you are pregnant For lifestyle issues like family planning For other reasons that are based on your individual needs See Choosing Wisely Canada for more information. I have a cold. Should I book an appointment? Can the doctor prescribe medication to me? If you have COVID-19 symptoms , please remain at home and call the Quebec helpline: 1-877-644-4545 . Check out our suggestions on how to treat colds and flu. Can I have my eyes checked at Health Services? For eye infections or injuries, call Health Services to book an appointment. For general eye health and vision testing, you may need to see an optometrist (eye specialist). There are no optometrists at Health Services. The student health insurance plan at Concordia offers a network of optometrists and other professionals of optometrists and other professionals who offer discounted prices to students covered by the plan. Can I see a dentist at Health Services? No, we do not have dental services at Health Services. Find resources for dental care. Does Health Services have medical specialists (gynecologist, dermatologist, sports physician, etc.)? No. The nurses and family doctors (GPs) at Health Services can help you with many of your health concerns and refer patients to a medical specialist if necessary. Contact information Call 514-848-2424 ext. 3565 (Sir George Williams) or ext. 3575 (Loyola) to book. Locations and hours Sir George Williams Campus 1550 De Maisonneuve W. Room GM-200 Tel: 514-848-2424 ext. 3565 Fax:  514-848-2834 Sir George Williams Campus hours Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Thursday: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke W. Room AD-131 Tel: 514-848-2424 ext. 3575 Fax: 514-848-4533 Loyola Campus hours Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday: 9 - 11:30 a.m., and 1 - 4:30 p.m. Thursday: 10 - 11:30 a.m., and 1 - 4:30 p.m. Health Services administrators Elana Bloom, Director, Campus Wellness and Support Services elana.bloom@concordia.ca Anne-Marie Lanctôt , Manager, Community Health Services anne-marie.lanctot@concordia.ca 514-848-2424 ext. 3569 Dr. Jeffrey Levitt , Manager, Mental Health Clinical Services jeffrey.levitt@concordia.ca 514-848-2424 ext. 3576 Doris Edmond , Department Coordinator doris.edmond@concordia.ca 514-848-2424 ext. 3583 Service Assistants 514-848-2424 ext. 3565