Sources of funding When starting a group or initiative having funding is essential to get your projects up and running. Below is a list of resources at Concordia you can potentially use to make your ideas a reality. University-wide Concordia Council on Student Life Special Project Funding Available to all students and student groups Concordia University Small Grants Program For new or enhanced projects that meet significant community needs. Concordia University Alumni Association (CUAA) Available to current students or a recognized Concordia student association. Concordia Student Union (CSU) Many types of funding offered. Grant for Religious and Spiritual Student Groups Available to student groups for faith- or interfaith-specific events, on or off campus. QPIRG Discretionary Fund For actions, projects or movements that support social and environmental justice. Sustainability Action Fund For sustainable projects SHIFT Centre for Social Transformation For community-led, socially transformative projects FundOne Concordia’s crowdfunding platform for students, researchers and community members Sustainability Living Lab Funding Program Funding program for Sustainability projects for Concordia University campus and its community. Faculty-based Arts and Science Federation of Associations (ASFA) Limited to students and groups in the Faculty of Arts and Science. Fine Arts Student Alliance (FASA) Limited to students and groups in the Faculty of Fine Arts. Faculty of Fine Arts Available to students in the Faculty who are invited to show their work outside of Montreal. Engineering and Computer Science Association (ECA) Limited to groups under the ECA. Must fit mandate. Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science Events must be directly related to the School. CASA Conference Program Available to JMSB undergrads for attending conferences related to their field of study. CASA Special Projects Fund Limited to those under the CASA umbrella. For graduate students Graduate Students Association (GSA) Fund Available to GSA members for academic or special projects Department of Graduate Studies To present at scholarly exhibitions or conferences. Contact: Jordan Carey, ext. 3835. Engineering and Computer Science Association (ECA) Limited to groups under the ECA. Must fit mandate.