VAV GALLERY VAV GALLERY VAV GALLERY NOW SHOWING MANDATE The VAV (Visual Arts Visuels) Gallery is a non-profit organization and democratically student-run exhibition space supported by a Concordia Fine Arts Undergraduate Student Fee Levy, located in the Visual Arts building at Concordia University, 1395 Rene Levesque W. Montréal, QC H3G 2M5, Canada. The Gallery seeks to showcase the excellence and diversity of artworks created by Concordia’s Fine Art Students of all levels of experience and identities, for the university community and the public at large. The curation and exhibition of Concordia University Fine Arts undergraduate student art is the priority of the Gallery. The Gallery employs a democratic jury process in the selection of its General Programming. The Gallery seeks to support emerging artists by acting both as an exhibition space and as a resource for learning by offering Special Programming such as workshops, lectures by visiting artists, and various other collaborations. The Gallery aims to provide a training ground and learning facility for undergraduate students to practice the skills of gallery management and operation and to develop their skills for professional presentation of their artwork. The Gallery is committed to diversity, inclusivity, and accessibility while seeking to reflect the scope of students within the Fine Arts Faculty. The Gallery affirms the inclusion of all people regardless of their age, race, culture, disabilities, illness, gender identity, marital status, nationality, citizenship, sexual orientation, or socioeconomic status. The Gallery aims to expand the University’s commitment to a culture rich in diverse artistic discourse through collaboration and communication with various departments on campus. The Gallery carries on its operations without monetary gain. The Gallery represents its Voting Members. The VAV Gallery is located on Kanien’kehá:ka traditional territory. The Gallery will acknowledge its location on unceded land.