Dean of Students The Dean of Students Office is here to enhance your student experience in Concordia’s rich life beyond the classroom. About us Our team is dedicated to supporting and promoting all aspects of student life. We do this by working with student groups, offering recognition of student involvement, providing access to special funding for projects, and assisting students to get involved in numerous opportunities on and off campus. Working with students, faculty and staff we also offer outreach and training programs to the Concordia community. We wish to ensure students have the opportunity to take full advantage of all the university has to offer and encourage them to make the most of their time at Concordia. We support students in ways to complement their in-class learning with activities and experiences where they can meet their peers, learn, gain skills, and have fun. Meet our team Andrew Woodall (he/him) Dean of Students andrew.woodall@concordia.ca 514-848-2424, ext. 3520 As the Dean of Students, I believe that student life is a crucial aspect of the Concordia experience. This means I advocate for student engagement and participation with Senior Administration, the Faculties and other offices. My role is to ensure that every decision is made with a lens to supporting a robust student life. Lauren Broad (she/her) Department Coordinator lauren.broad@concordia.ca 514-848-2424, ext. 5262 As Department Coordinator in the Dean of Students Office, I assist with the day to day administration of our office and its units. I oversee the budget and finances for the DoS and its units, as well as assist with matters relating to Human Resources. As the secretary on the Concordia Council on Student Life (CCSL) , I am the contact person for the CCSL Special Projects Fund and the CCSL Awards. Terry Kyle (she/her) Manager, Student Life terry.kyle@concordia.ca 514-848-2424, ext. 4062 As Manager, Student Life, I assist with the strategic thinking of our department and support staff members. Working closely with students, I also offer support through advising, mentoring and coaching. Eddie Hareven (they/them) Coordinator of Student Engagement eddiejude.hareven@concordia.ca 514-848-2424, ext. 4828 As Student Engagment Coordinator, my goal is to support, encourage and develop student engagement opportunities through mentorship, training and programming. Alex Oster (he/him) Coordinator of Student Engagement alexander.oster@concordia.ca 514-848-2424, ext. 4300 My goal as Student Engagement Coordinator is to work with student leaders and organizations to ensure all students have access to the support, community, and resources they need to succeed and thrive! Sabrina Catalogna (she/her) Student Engagement Assistant sabrina.catalogna@concordia.ca 514-848-2424, ext. 3500 As Student Engagement Assistant, I oversee and provide logistical support regarding the Co-curricular Record (CCR) to students, staff and faculty. I also act as the primary liaison between the DoS and University Communication Services (UCS), providing marketing, communications support, and creating digital content initiatives. Daniel Amico (he/him) Department Assistant daniel.amico@concordia.ca 514-848-2424, ext. 4239 As Department Assistant, I am the primary resource to the Dean of Students Office at the Loyola Campus. I perform administrative and secretarial tasks in support of the daily operations of the office. I administer requests for our bookable spaces , support the Secretary of CCSL as a liaison between our office and students/student groups. Katie Broad (she/her) Coordinator, LIVE Centre katie.broad@concordia.ca 514-848-2424, ext. 5573 As Coordinator of the LIVE Centre , my role is providing services and programs that promote student leadership and volunteerism as well community building on campus. Paige Hilderman (she/her) Supervisor, Homeroom Program paige.hilderman@concordia.ca 514-848-2424, ext. 2998 As Supervisor of Homeroom , I am responsible for all aspects of the Homeroom program's operations and performance, overseeing the curriculum development, delivery and program evaluation. Joel Dinku (he/him) Coordinator, Homeroom Program joel.dinku@concordia.ca 514-848-2424, ext. 4394 As Homeroom Coordinator, I am in charge of daily operations, events and programming, while supporting our student facilitators in their training and the fulfillment of their roles. I also assist in curriculum development and program evaluation, as we are continually working to improve Homeroom. Kyla Alexis Palanca (she/her) Homeroom Program Assistant kylaalexis.palanca@concordia.ca As Homeroom Program Assistant, I support the Supervisor and Coordinator with the daily operations of the program and assist with the trainings of the Student Facilitators. I manage our communication platforms, as well as oversee, create and develop content for our social media accounts. David Baker (he/him) Service Assistant david.baker@concordia.ca 514-848-2424, ext. 3517 As the Service Assistant, I am the frontline resource to the Dean of Students Office at the SGW Campus. I support students by responding to general inquiries, assisting with student elections , student group registration , as well as processing your convention de stage . Additional information on student life Student group resources Get access to information on how to create a group, host group events, and sources for existing groups. Learn more Student groups listing Explore the various student groups, clubs, associations and ways to get involved. Learn more Student funding Find funding resources for student-led initiatives or starting a group. Learn more