Experiential learning at Concordia In 2022, Concordia made a commitment to offer every incoming undergraduate student at least one experiential learning opportunity during their studies and at least two by 2025. Discover the six types of experiential learning at Concordia. Students can search for EL opportunities to participate in by faculty, program, or by type. Course-integrated Work-integrated Research-based Community-based International Student life Institute for Co-operative Education Bridging university life and your career Learn more 5000+ co-op placements 1600+ courses with EL 16 field schools 2000+ partners 1100+ internships 130+ international opportunities 80 student societies Connect Concordia mentorship program Pairing undergraduates with employees to provide an enriching university experience for everyone. Become a student mentee Become an employee mentor Benefits Experiential learning is a high-impact practice in higher education that benefits all stakeholders. Benefits for students For students, EL allows them to contextualize what they learn in class, and help them to absorb, retain and apply knowledge in a way that is more profound than a traditional lecture-based course. The active engagement of the student in the learning experience enhances knowledge, professional and transferrable skills (such as communication, critical thinking, problem-solving, etc.), and attitudes (increased self-esteem, leadership, motivation, engagement in school and at work). These, in turn, help students build their resumes, their networks, and allow them to better realize their career aspirations. Overall, students develop an increased sense of preparedness for life and work. Benefits for faculty and staff For faculty and staff, positive student feedback and engagement lead to increased teaching and work satisfaction, an enhanced classroom environment, and potentially more research opportunities. Benefits for industry, community and other partners Industry, community, and other partners benefit from better-prepared graduates that enter the workforce and the world, and benefit from increased access to talent, resources, and state-of-the-art knowledge that students apply to help solve their problems. Benefits for the university The university benefits from enhanced reputation, increased enrolment, and retention of students, as well as increased civic engagement. Benefits for society The impact on society is that students and graduates can more effectively contribute to the economic and social wellbeing of people in Quebec. Resources for you Students Faculty & staff Partners & employers Examples of experiential learning in the faculties Faculty of Arts and Science Faculty of Fine arts Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science John Molson School of Business Experiential learning news Global Learning Day x Elsewhere will showcase international learning opportunities available to Concordia students September 6, 2023 Concordian Noah Larocque is working to control B.C. and Alberta wildfires August 29, 2023 Concordia students are developing a video game to assess urban livability and sustainability January 9, 2023 More EL news Learn X by doing Y Learn more about the Office of Experiential Learning and Co-operative Education . Meet the team