STUDENT GROUPS Explore Concordia's countless student groups and get involved in University life! Concordia's rich collection of student groups include cultural, religious, social and academic groups. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Filter by: Alphabetical listing Umbrella student association Search African Students Association of Concordia CSU The African Students? Association of Concordia is a society representative of the African diaspora within Concordia University. H-711 asacconcordia@csu.qc.ca https://asacconcordia.com African Students Association of Concordia The African Students? Association of Concordia is a society representative of the African diaspora within Concordia University. AIESEC CSU AIESEC is a global platform for young people to develop their leadership potential through internships, volunteering opportunities, and more. H-711 aiesec@csu.qc.ca aiesec.ca/join-aiesec or aiesec.org AIESEC AIESEC is a global platform for young people to develop their leadership potential through internships, volunteering opportunities, and more. Alpha Epsilon Phi GLC Sorority aephiconcordiapresident@gmail.com Alpha Epsilon Phi Sorority Animate Concordia FASA Animate Concordia is a student-run organization dedicated to establishing community within the Film Animation student body, promoting the work of stud fman.club@gmail.com Animate Concordia Animate Concordia is a student-run organization dedicated to establishing community within the Film Animation student body, promoting the work of stud Art History Graduate Student Association GSA Concordia University's Art History Graduate Student Association (AHGSA) endeavours to enhance the academic life of all art history graduate students. cu.ahgsa@gmail.com Art History Graduate Student Association Concordia University's Art History Graduate Student Association (AHGSA) endeavours to enhance the academic life of all art history graduate students. Art Matters Festival FASA Student Run Arts Festival VA038 admin@artmattersfestival.org artmattersfestival.org Art Matters Festival Student Run Arts Festival Artificial Intelligence Society Concordia CSU Artificial Intelligence Concordia is dedicated to identifying and cultivating the core skills and competencies needed in applied AI. aisc@csu.qc.ca http://launchlab.ai/ Artificial Intelligence Society Concordia Artificial Intelligence Concordia is dedicated to identifying and cultivating the core skills and competencies needed in applied AI. Arts and Science Federation of Associations ASFA The Arts and Science Federation of Associations (ASFA) is the largest faculty-level student union at Concordia. 2070 rue Mackay Montreal, Quebec H3G 2J1 514 848 2424 7966 contact@asfa.ca https://www.asfa.ca/ Arts and Science Federation of Associations The Arts and Science Federation of Associations (ASFA) is the largest faculty-level student union at Concordia. Ascend University Chapter CSU Provides opportunities to help individuals not only cultivate leadership & professional growth but also bridge the cultural gap in the workplace. ascendconu@csu.qc.ca https://ascendleadership.ca/page/student-affairs/ Ascend University Chapter Provides opportunities to help individuals not only cultivate leadership & professional growth but also bridge the cultural gap in the workplace. Association for Graduate Students in Psychology (AGSP) GSA We represent the interests of psychology graduate students and organize events. PY-317 theagsp@gmail.com www.theagsp.wordpress.com Association for Graduate Students in Psychology (AGSP) We represent the interests of psychology graduate students and organize events. Autodidacts Concordia Theatre CSU A theatre club for students from any program, any faculty, and any level of experience. Autodidacts.Concordia.Theatre@csu.qc.ca https://www.csu.qc.ca/the-a-c-t-club/ Autodidacts Concordia Theatre A theatre club for students from any program, any faculty, and any level of experience. Best Buddies CSU Best Buddies builds friendships between people with and without intellectual and developmental disabilities. bestbuddies.concordia@csu.qc.ca https://m.facebook.com/bestbuddiesconcordia/ Best Buddies Best Buddies builds friendships between people with and without intellectual and developmental disabilities. Biology Student Association (BSA) ASFA This association represents undergraduate students in the biology department. SP375.21 bsa@asfa.ca Biology Student Association (BSA) This association represents undergraduate students in the biology department. Black Students Career Development Team CSU Creating Spaces to Empower Black Students & Alumni H-711 concordiabscd@csu.qc.ca Black Students Career Development Team Creating Spaces to Empower Black Students & Alumni Brazilian Student Association (BRASA) Concordia CSU We have the mission of promoting and empowering the Brazilian culture and the student community within our University. H-711 brasa.concordia@csu.qc.ca https://www.instagram.com/brasa_concordia/ Brazilian Student Association (BRASA) Concordia We have the mission of promoting and empowering the Brazilian culture and the student community within our University. CASA Cares CASA CASA Cares is the non-profit segment of CASA, responsible for charity fundraising, spreading awareness and providing student involvement opportunities 4388279457 andrea.valcarcel@casacares.com https://www.casacares.com/ CASA Cares CASA Cares is the non-profit segment of CASA, responsible for charity fundraising, spreading awareness and providing student involvement opportunities CASE (Concordia Assocation for Students in English) ASFA Association representing undergraduate students studying English literature, creative writing, and/or professional writing and editing. president.case@asfa.ca https://communicationscase.wixsite.com/case-concordia CASE (Concordia Assocation for Students in English) Association representing undergraduate students studying English literature, creative writing, and/or professional writing and editing. CBGSA Concordia GSA Chemistry and Biochemistry Graduate Student Association concordia.cbgsa@gmail.com CBGSA Concordia Chemistry and Biochemistry Graduate Student Association CEED Concordia OTHER CEED Concordia is a fee-levy association of Concordia University and a non-profit organization operating in Montreal, Canada and Gulu, Uganda 2110 Mackay Street V210 info@ceedconcordia.org https://www.ceedconcordia.org CEED Concordia CEED Concordia is a fee-levy association of Concordia University and a non-profit organization operating in Montreal, Canada and Gulu, Uganda Centre for Gender Advocacy OTHER Promoting gender equality and empowerment, particularly as it relates to marginalized communities. 2110 rue Mackay, Montreal QC H3G 2J1 (514) 848-2424 7431 info@genderadvocacy.org https://genderadvocacy.org/ Centre for Gender Advocacy Promoting gender equality and empowerment, particularly as it relates to marginalized communities. Chabad Student Group at Concordia University CSU Chabad Concordia Student Club. We host events for all students of all affiliations. H-711 chabad@csu.qc.ca Jconcordia.com Chabad Student Group at Concordia University Chabad Concordia Student Club. We host events for all students of all affiliations. Chess Club Concordia CSU Chess Club at Concordia University. Join them to play chess every week. chessatConcordia@csu.qc.ca Chess Club Concordia Chess Club at Concordia University. Join them to play chess every week. CJLO 1690AM OTHER CJLO is Concordia University's campus radio station. 7141 Sherbrooke St W CC-430, Montreal, QC H4B 1R6 514-848-8663 manager@cjlo.com http://cjlo.com/ CJLO 1690AM CJLO is Concordia University's campus radio station. Commerce and Administration Students' Association CASA CASA Student Association MB4.105 438-930-2881 info@casajmsb.ca https://www.casajmsb.ca Commerce and Administration Students' Association CASA Student Association Communication Doctoral Student Association GSA Association representing doctoral students and candidates in the communications PHD program colleen.mccool@mail.concordia.ca Communication Doctoral Student Association Association representing doctoral students and candidates in the communications PHD program COMS Guild ASFA a student organization representing all students in Communication Studies and Communications and Cultural Studies at Concordia. comsguild@asfa.ca https://www.mycomsguild.ca/ COMS Guild a student organization representing all students in Communication Studies and Communications and Cultural Studies at Concordia. Concordia Armenian Students' Union (CASU) IEAC CASU's goal is to promote Armenian cultural awareness as well as uniting fellow Concordians by organizing variety of events. asaconcordia.canada@gmail.com Concordia Armenian Students' Union (CASU) CASU's goal is to promote Armenian cultural awareness as well as uniting fellow Concordians by organizing variety of events. Concordia Association of Students in Theatre FASA CAST is a student-run organization assembled to ensure advocacy, community, and accessibility to theatre students at Concordia. Room GM-500.01 1550 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, QC  H3H 1G8 writetocast@gmail.com https://writetocast.wixsite.com/website Concordia Association of Students in Theatre CAST is a student-run organization assembled to ensure advocacy, community, and accessibility to theatre students at Concordia. Concordia Business Review CSU A student-led publication devoted to featuring articles and content on a range of business topics. cbr@csu.qc.ca https://www.concordiabusinessreview.com/ Concordia Business Review A student-led publication devoted to featuring articles and content on a range of business topics. Concordia Canadian Asian Society (CCAS) CSU Concordia Canadian Asian Society clubccas@csu.qc.ca linktr.ee/Clubccas Concordia Canadian Asian Society (CCAS) Concordia Canadian Asian Society Concordia Caribbean Student Union (CCSU) IEAC Club that represents the caribbean students of Concordia concordia.caribbean@gmail.com Concordia Caribbean Student Union (CCSU) Club that represents the caribbean students of Concordia Concordia Ceramics Student Association (CCSA) FASA Ceramics fine arts club associated with FASA 1395 Rene-Levesque Blvd W, Montreal, Quebec H3G 2M5 ccsaceramics@gmail.com Concordia Ceramics Student Association (CCSA) Ceramics fine arts club associated with FASA Concordia Cheerleading CSU Non-Competitive Cheerleading Team at Concordia University. Concordiacheerteam@csu.qc.ca https://www.instagram.com/concordiacheers/ Concordia Cheerleading Non-Competitive Cheerleading Team at Concordia University. Concordia Chinese Students and Scholars Association-CSSA IEAC Concordia Chinese Students and Scholars Association cssa.concordia@outlook.com Concordia Chinese Students and Scholars Association-CSSA Concordia Chinese Students and Scholars Association Concordia Cinema Politica Student Association OTHER Cinema Politica is a media arts, non-profit network of community and campus locals that screen independent political film and video. Concordia University SGW Campus Hall Building Room H-641 Montreal, QC H3G 1M8 concordia@cinemapolitica.org https://www.cinemapolitica.org/local/concordia/ Concordia Cinema Politica Student Association Cinema Politica is a media arts, non-profit network of community and campus locals that screen independent political film and video. Concordia Community Solidarity Co-op Bookstore CSU Alternative education/bookstore 5148482046 finance.coopbookstore@gmail.com https://www.co-opbookstore.ca/ Concordia Community Solidarity Co-op Bookstore Alternative education/bookstore Concordia Dragon Boat Club CSU Concordia's Dragon Boat Club H-711 dragonboat@csu.qc.ca https://linktr.ee/concordiadragonboatclub Concordia Dragon Boat Club Concordia's Dragon Boat Club Concordia E-Sports Student Association CSU The Concordia Esports Association (CEA) is looking to gather Concordia University's gaming enthusiasts. K-220 cesa@csu.qc.ca https://esportsconcordia.ca/ Concordia E-Sports Student Association The Concordia Esports Association (CEA) is looking to gather Concordia University's gaming enthusiasts. Concordia Electroacoustic Studies Student Association FASA Supporting, encouraging, and promoting student-led efforts and initiatives throughout Concordia's Electroacoustic Studies program and community cessa.concordia@gmail.com Concordia Electroacoustic Studies Student Association Supporting, encouraging, and promoting student-led efforts and initiatives throughout Concordia's Electroacoustic Studies program and community Concordia Engineering Games ECA Student organization responsible for Concordia's participation in the Engineering Games (Jeux de Genie du Quebec) Bannex, B302 president.enggames@ecaconcordia.ca Concordia Engineering Games Student organization responsible for Concordia's participation in the Engineering Games (Jeux de Genie du Quebec) Concordia Fashion Business Association CSU Connects industry professionals with students who are interested in the fashion world through educational events providing career opportunities. P-303 concordiafba@csu.qc.ca https://www.concordiafba.com/ Concordia Fashion Business Association Connects industry professionals with students who are interested in the fashion world through educational events providing career opportunities. Concordia Film Festival FASA The Concordia Film Festival is an annual international film festival that is run for students by students. 4387284860 cffdirector@concordiafilmfestival.com concordiafilmfestival.com Concordia Film Festival The Concordia Film Festival is an annual international film festival that is run for students by students. Concordia Food Coalition OTHER Concordia Food Coalition SZ204-1 concordiafoodcoalition@gmail.com https://www.concordiafoodcoalition.com Concordia Food Coalition Concordia Food Coalition Concordia Game Development CSU Concordia University's official club for game development. concordiagamedev@csu.qc.ca concordiagamedev.ca Concordia Game Development Concordia University's official club for game development. Concordia Games Club CSU Playing All Sorts of Hobby Board Games. All levels are welcome to play. H-711 gamesclub@csu.qc.ca Dsc.gg/ConUGamesClub Concordia Games Club Playing All Sorts of Hobby Board Games. All levels are welcome to play. Concordia Global Affairs Association - CGAA OTHER CGAA is an organisation that engages in activities related to Model Un as well as charitable work 2100 MacKay Street, Office PR-321  Montreal (QC) Canada  H3G 2J1 514-641-8432 chair@cg-aa.org https://www.conmun.org/copy-of-concordia-global-affairs-asso Concordia Global Affairs Association - CGAA CGAA is an organisation that engages in activities related to Model Un as well as charitable work Concordia Greenhouse Project OTHER Fee levy group 1455 de Maisonneuve Ouest, 13th Floor, Montreal QC, H3G 1M8 (514) 848 2424 (Ext: 5134) info@concordiagreenhouse.com www.concordiagreenhouse.com Concordia Greenhouse Project Fee levy group Concordia Kpop Club CSU The club will organize kpop related activities involving dancing, drawing fanart, watching dramas, and more, for the enjoyment of its members. H-711 KpopClub@csu.qc.ca https://linktr.ee/concordiakpopclub Concordia Kpop Club The club will organize kpop related activities involving dancing, drawing fanart, watching dramas, and more, for the enjoyment of its members. Concordia Marketing Aid Clinic CSU Offers free marketing consultation support to Montreal nonprofits and small businesses, providing Concordia students with invaluable work experience cmac@csu.qc.ca www.cmac.club/ Concordia Marketing Aid Clinic Offers free marketing consultation support to Montreal nonprofits and small businesses, providing Concordia students with invaluable work experience Concordia Outdoors Club CSU Our goal is to get students out of the city and into the wilderness in and around Montreal and the greater Quebec area. H-711 outdoorsclub@csu.qc.ca https://www.concordiaoutdoorsclub.com/ Concordia Outdoors Club Our goal is to get students out of the city and into the wilderness in and around Montreal and the greater Quebec area. Concordia Photo Collective FASA We?re a community intrigued by image. We give Concordia Fine Arts students a platform to share their image work and organize projects/events for them. concordiaphotography@gmail.com Concordia Photo Collective We?re a community intrigued by image. We give Concordia Fine Arts students a platform to share their image work and organize projects/events for them. Concordia Relay for Life CSU During Relay, we honour Participants of Hope during our first lap - the Lap of Hope. H-711 concordiarelay@csu.qc.ca https://support.cancer.ca/site/TR/RelayForLife/RFLY_NW_even_?fr_id=28710&pg=entry Concordia Relay for Life During Relay, we honour Participants of Hope during our first lap - the Lap of Hope. Concordia SAE ECA Society of Automotive Engineers. We have multiple sub teams including Formula, Baja, Aero, Aero/Auto-Connect, Business. 1455 blvd de Maisonneuve H-022, Montreal, QC H3G 2E9 info@concordiasae.ca https://www.concordiasae.ca/ Concordia SAE Society of Automotive Engineers. We have multiple sub teams including Formula, Baja, Aero, Aero/Auto-Connect, Business. Concordia Ski & Snowboard Club CSU dedicated to the improvement of student life by offering affordable ski and snowboard trips throughout the winter season. P-103 cssc.contact@csu.qc.ca concordiass.club Concordia Ski & Snowboard Club dedicated to the improvement of student life by offering affordable ski and snowboard trips throughout the winter season. Concordia Student Broadcasting Corporation OTHER The Concordia Student Broadcasting Corporation is an umbrella organization that oversees the governance of CJLO 1690 AM, Concordia University Radio. csbc@cjlo.com http://concordiastudentbroadcasting.com/ Concordia Student Broadcasting Corporation The Concordia Student Broadcasting Corporation is an umbrella organization that oversees the governance of CJLO 1690 AM, Concordia University Radio. Concordia Student Union CSU The CSU?s mission is to serve students, defend their rights, and act as their highest representative body at Concordia. H-711 514-848-7474 contactus@csu.qc.ca https://www.csu.qc.ca/ Concordia Student Union The CSU?s mission is to serve students, defend their rights, and act as their highest representative body at Concordia. Concordia Students for Parkinson's CSU Concordia Students for Parkinson's H-711 concordia.parkinsons@csu.qc.ca Concordia Students for Parkinson's Concordia Students for Parkinson's Concordia Students' Nightline OTHER A confidential, anonymous, non-judgemental active listening service run by Concordia students 514-848-7787 cnightlineexternal@gmail.com https://www.concordianightline.ca/ Concordia Students' Nightline A confidential, anonymous, non-judgemental active listening service run by Concordia students Concordia Tennis Team CSU Concordia Tennis Team is non-profit and serves to provide a structured environment for students to compete and play tennis. H-711 cutennisteam@csu.qc.ca https://www.concordiatennistea.wixsite.com/concordia Concordia Tennis Team Concordia Tennis Team is non-profit and serves to provide a structured environment for students to compete and play tennis. Concordia Undergraduate Psychology Association (CUPA) ASFA Student run organization representing psychology and neuroscience students at Concordia through both social and academic events PY-321, Concordia University Loyola Campus, 7141 Sherbrooke St W, Montreal, Quebec H4B 1R6 president.cupa@asfa.ca https://cupaconcordia.com/ Concordia Undergraduate Psychology Association (CUPA) Student run organization representing psychology and neuroscience students at Concordia through both social and academic events Concordia University Building Engineering Society - CUBES ECA Concordia University Building Engineering Society president.cubes@ecaconcordia.ca Concordia University Building Engineering Society - CUBES Concordia University Building Engineering Society Concordia University Catholic Student Association CSU The Concordia University Catholic Student Association provides opportunities for all students to come together in faith, fun & social activities. H-711 concordia.csa@csu.qc.ca Concordia University Catholic Student Association The Concordia University Catholic Student Association provides opportunities for all students to come together in faith, fun & social activities. Concordia University Tamil Mantram CSU Promotes Tamil culture and plays a role of gateway offering various information to all Tamil students in order to foster a multi-cultural harmony. SC-03-3 cutam.tsa@csu.qc.ca https://www.linkedin.com/company/cutam-tsa/ Concordia University Tamil Mantram Promotes Tamil culture and plays a role of gateway offering various information to all Tamil students in order to foster a multi-cultural harmony. Concordia University Tea Enthusiasts (CUTEA) CSU Concordia University Tea Enthusiast Association CUTEA. The Club Of Tea. H-711 cutea@csu.qc.ca Concordia University Tea Enthusiasts (CUTEA) Concordia University Tea Enthusiast Association CUTEA. The Club Of Tea. Concordia University Turkish Student Association CSU To gather all students who are interested together in solidarity to convey Turkish culture and cuisine in the best way. cuturksa@csu.qc.ca Concordia University Turkish Student Association To gather all students who are interested together in solidarity to convey Turkish culture and cuisine in the best way. Creative Arts Therapies Student Graduate Association GSA CAT student association to support students and communicate with staff  and faculty. S-ER 175 wearecatsga@gmail.com Creative Arts Therapies Student Graduate Association CAT student association to support students and communicate with staff  and faculty. CSME - Concordia Chapter ECA CSME is the Canadian Society of Mechanical Engineers. We are the Concordia University Branch. We engage in 3D printing and other engineering projects. 2160 Bishop St, Montreal, QC H3G 2E9 president.csme@ecaconcordia.ca CSME - Concordia Chapter CSME is the Canadian Society of Mechanical Engineers. We are the Concordia University Branch. We engage in 3D printing and other engineering projects. CUBCAPS ASFA Concordia Undergraduate Biochemistry Chemistry And Physics Society cubcaps@asfa.ca CUBCAPS Concordia Undergraduate Biochemistry Chemistry And Physics Society CURE Concordia OTHER CURE works to create mutually transformative relationships between student researchers and community organisations, PR-325 curemontreal@gmail.com curemontreal.org CURE Concordia CURE works to create mutually transformative relationships between student researchers and community organisations, CUTV (Concordia University Television) OTHER CUTV (Concordia University Television) CUTV (Concordia University Television) info@cutvmontreal.org CUTV (Concordia University Television) CUTV (Concordia University Television) DASA (Design Arts Student Alliance) FASA DASA is an organization that focusses on bringing the fine arts community closer together by prodiving events, workshops and social gatherings. concordia.dasa@gmail.com DASA (Design Arts Student Alliance) DASA is an organization that focusses on bringing the fine arts community closer together by prodiving events, workshops and social gatherings. Delegation Concordia aux Jeux de la Communication (JDLC) CSU Une competition interuniversitaire dans laquelle s?affrontent les meilleures facultes de communication de 7 universites du Canada francophone. jdlc.concordia@csu.qc.ca http://concordiajdlc.com/ Delegation Concordia aux Jeux de la Communication (JDLC) Une competition interuniversitaire dans laquelle s?affrontent les meilleures facultes de communication de 7 universites du Canada francophone. Enactus CASA Enactus is an international non-profit organization that works with leaders in business and higher education to mobilize university students to make a msmith@enactusconcordia.com https://www.enactusconcordia.org/ Enactus Enactus is an international non-profit organization that works with leaders in business and higher education to mobilize university students to make a Engineering and Commerce Case Competition (ENGCOMM) OTHER ENGCOMM is a one-of-a-kind case competition.It focuses on combining the technical field of Engineering with the interactive field of Commerce. PR 425, 2100 Mackay Street president@engcomm.ca https://www.engcomm.ca/ Engineering and Commerce Case Competition (ENGCOMM) ENGCOMM is a one-of-a-kind case competition.It focuses on combining the technical field of Engineering with the interactive field of Commerce. Engineering and Computer Science Association (ECA) ECA The ECA is a not-for-profit organization that represents all undergraduate students at the Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science H-838, 1455 Blvd de Maisonneuve Ouest, Montreal QC, H3G 1M8 (514) 838-2424(Ext: 7408) info@ecaconcordia.ca https://ecaconcordia.ca/ Engineering and Computer Science Association (ECA) The ECA is a not-for-profit organization that represents all undergraduate students at the Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Association ECSGA ENGINEERING AND COMPUTER SCIENCE GRADUATE ASSOCIATION 2170 Bishop St, Montreal, QC H3G 2E9  Room MU0101-00 info@concordiaecsga.ca https://www.concordiaecsga.ca/ Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Association ENGINEERING AND COMPUTER SCIENCE GRADUATE ASSOCIATION EngiQueers ECA A Safe Space for LGBTQ+ Future Engineers of Concordia University engiqueers@ecaconcordia.ca EngiQueers A Safe Space for LGBTQ+ Future Engineers of Concordia University ESS Concordia Economics Student Society ASFA Concordia Economics student club ess@asfa.ca ESS Concordia Economics Student Society Concordia Economics student club Fibres Student Association (FSA) FASA The Fibres Student Association (FSA) is a student group dedicated to promoting fibre arts within Concordia. We organize hands-on workshops, exhibits, fsa.concordia@gmail.com fsaconcordia.weebly.com Fibres Student Association (FSA) The Fibres Student Association (FSA) is a student group dedicated to promoting fibre arts within Concordia. We organize hands-on workshops, exhibits, Filipino Organization of Concordia University Students (FOCUS) CSU To promote and celebrate the diverse layers of the Filipino identity, culture and heritage to Concordia students through its programming and events K-205 focus@csu.qc.ca https://www.focusconcordia.ca Filipino Organization of Concordia University Students (FOCUS) To promote and celebrate the diverse layers of the Filipino identity, culture and heritage to Concordia students through its programming and events Finance and Investment Students' Association (FISA) CASA FISA, along with its subsidiaries, the John Molson Trading League (JMTL) and the John Molson Investment Society (JMIS), seeks to shape the next genera info@fisajmsb.ca https://www.fisajmsb.ca/ Finance and Investment Students' Association (FISA) FISA, along with its subsidiaries, the John Molson Trading League (JMTL) and the John Molson Investment Society (JMIS), seeks to shape the next genera Fine Arts Reading Room FASA Fine Arts Reading Room - Student run arts library EV 2.785 (514) 848-2424(Ext:5633) fineartsreadingroom@gmail.com https://fineartsreadingroom.org/ Fine Arts Reading Room Fine Arts Reading Room - Student run arts library Fine Arts Student Alliance FASA Official representation for the Undergraduate Fine Arts students of Concordia Concordia University Fine Arts Student Alliance office.fasa@gmail.com https://fineartsstudentalliance.com/ Fine Arts Student Alliance Official representation for the Undergraduate Fine Arts students of Concordia Galerie VAV Gallery FASA The Galerie VAV Gallery is a non-profit, student-run gallery curated by and for undergraduate students and is located in Concordia's VA building. VA037 vavgallery.administration@concordia.ca https://www.vavgallery.ca/ Galerie VAV Gallery The Galerie VAV Gallery is a non-profit, student-run gallery curated by and for undergraduate students and is located in Concordia's VA building. Garnet Key Society OTHER Concordia University's official honour society that acts as a liaison between the Office of the President and the student body. H-664 garnetkey@concordia.ca Garnet Key Society Concordia University's official honour society that acts as a liaison between the Office of the President and the student body. GDBA/GCBA/GCQBS Society JMGSA For the seamless integration of Graduate Diploma students into the Concordia and JMSB culture. JMSB 5th Floor - Same office as GSA gdba.gcba.president@gmail.com GDBA/GCBA/GCQBS Society For the seamless integration of Graduate Diploma students into the Concordia and JMSB culture. GEOGRADS GSA The geography graduate student association gpe.grads@gmail.com https://geograds.wordpress.com/ GEOGRADS The geography graduate student association Geography Undergraduate Student Society ASFA The Member's Association for all students in the department of  Geography and Environment thejng@gmail.com Geography Undergraduate Student Society The Member's Association for all students in the department of  Geography and Environment Golden Key International Honour Society OTHER Golden Key Academy is a place of online learning created and one of the best honor society to join. It aims to support current and future GK members. 2100 Mackay  PR Building, PR-405  Montreal, Quebec   H3G 2J1 goldenkey@concordia.ca Golden Key International Honour Society Golden Key Academy is a place of online learning created and one of the best honor society to join. It aims to support current and future GK members. Google Developer Student Club CSU Help students learn more about Software Engineering and Computer Science fields. GDSC@csu.qc.ca Google Developer Student Club Help students learn more about Software Engineering and Computer Science fields. Graduate Health and Exercise Science Students Association (GHESSA) GSA Graduate students association under the Health, Kinesiology, and Applied Physiology Department GHESSA.Concordia@gmail.com Graduate Health and Exercise Science Students Association (GHESSA) Graduate students association under the Health, Kinesiology, and Applied Physiology Department Graduate History Student Association GSA Student association representing graduate History students ghsa@gsaconcordia.ca Graduate History Student Association Student association representing graduate History students Graduate History Student Association (GHSA) GSA The Graduate History Student Association (GHSA) plans events and advocates for the needs of MA and Ph.D students at Concordia. ghsa@gsaconcordia.ca Graduate History Student Association (GHSA) The Graduate History Student Association (GHSA) plans events and advocates for the needs of MA and Ph.D students at Concordia. Graduate Individualized Student Association GSA Student Association for Graduate Individualized Program gisa@gsaconcordia.ca Graduate Individualized Student Association Student Association for Graduate Individualized Program Graduate Students' Association GSA Student-run group that represents the collective interests & promotes the general welfare of the graduate students of Concordia University, Montreal. 5148482424(7900) info@gsaconcordia.ca https://gsaconcordia.ca/ Graduate Students' Association Student-run group that represents the collective interests & promotes the general welfare of the graduate students of Concordia University, Montreal. Greek Letter Council GLC To help promote Greek life within Concordia University and Montreal. 2100 Rue Mackay Room 402, Montreal, QC H3G 2J1, Canada coms.glc.cu@gmail.com https://comsglccu.wixsite.com/greek-letter-council Greek Letter Council To help promote Greek life within Concordia University and Montreal. HackConcordia ECA HackConcordia is a student group that hosts a yearly hackathon known as ConUHacks. internal.hackconcordia@ecaconcordia.ca https://hackconcordia.io/ HackConcordia HackConcordia is a student group that hosts a yearly hackathon known as ConUHacks. Haitian Students at Concordia (HSAC) CSU Promoting Haiti at Concordia University! H-711 hsac@csu.qc.ca https://www.facebook.com/hsacconcordia Haitian Students at Concordia (HSAC) Promoting Haiti at Concordia University! Health, Kinesiology and Applied Physiology Student Association ASFA HKAPSA strives to form a tight knit community within the department. We provide a healthy balance of both academic and social initiatives. concordiahkapsa@gmail.com https://www.hkapsaconcordia.com/ Health, Kinesiology and Applied Physiology Student Association HKAPSA strives to form a tight knit community within the department. We provide a healthy balance of both academic and social initiatives. Heart for Africa CSU Humanitarian club seeking to raise awareness on challenges facing the people of Eswatini. H-711 heartforafrica@csu.qc.ca https://heartforafrica.wixsite.com/heartforafrica Heart for Africa Humanitarian club seeking to raise awareness on challenges facing the people of Eswatini. Hellenic Student Association of Concordia IEAC Our goal is to promote hellenism and bring hellenic students together since the 1980`s. 2010 rue Mackay H3G 2J1, Montreal, QC, Suite-204 hac2020@outlook.com Hellenic Student Association of Concordia Our goal is to promote hellenism and bring hellenic students together since the 1980`s. Hillel Concordia CSU Our mission is to enrich the lives of Jewish students through inspiring and meaningful connections to Jewish life, learning & Israel. H-711 hillel@csu.qc.ca https://linktr.ee/hillelmontreal Hillel Concordia Our mission is to enrich the lives of Jewish students through inspiring and meaningful connections to Jewish life, learning & Israel. IEEE Concordia Student Branch ECA IEEE Concordia is a student organisation under ECA and IEEE. team@ieeeconcordia.ca info@ieeeconcordia.ca https://www.ieeeconcordia.ca/ IEEE Concordia Student Branch IEEE Concordia is a student organisation under ECA and IEEE. IISE Concordia ECA Concordia chapter of the institute of industrial and systems engineers (IISE), an international organization dedicated to helping industrial engineers president@iiseconcordia.com IISE Concordia Concordia chapter of the institute of industrial and systems engineers (IISE), an international organization dedicated to helping industrial engineers imca400 club FASA club for intermedia and fine arts students imca4billion@gmail.com imca400 club club for intermedia and fine arts students InArte Journal FASA The InARTE Journal is an online, student-initiative research/creation journal that aims to showcase the brilliant works that touch the Art Education w inarte.journal@gmail.com inartejournal.ca InArte Journal The InARTE Journal is an online, student-initiative research/creation journal that aims to showcase the brilliant works that touch the Art Education w International and Ethnic Associations Council IEAC IEAC s mission is to solidify relationships among students and other association Q-106 3551 bod.ieac@gmail.com ieacconcordia.com International and Ethnic Associations Council IEAC s mission is to solidify relationships among students and other association Intervarsity at Concordia CSU Intervarsity at Concordia H-711 intervarsity@csu.qc.ca ivcf.ca/campus/connectoncampus/concordia/ Intervarsity at Concordia Intervarsity at Concordia IRANSA GSA Iran Graduate Students (and Alumni, if possible) Association cu.iransa@gmail.com IRANSA Iran Graduate Students (and Alumni, if possible) Association JMIBA - John Molson International Business Association CASA We seek to inform, support and involve students into the global business world by bridging the gap between them and international business colleagues. 1450 Rue Guy - MB 4.440 Montreal, Quebec H3H 0A1 Canada contact@jmiba.com https://www.jmiba.com JMIBA - John Molson International Business Association We seek to inform, support and involve students into the global business world by bridging the gap between them and international business colleagues. JMSB MSc Society JMGSA The JMSB MSc Society is a student-led association at Concordia University that promotes community, networking, professional development, and advocacy jmsbmscsociety@gmail.com JMSB MSc Society The JMSB MSc Society is a student-led association at Concordia University that promotes community, networking, professional development, and advocacy JMSB Project Management Club JMGSA The JMSB Project Management Club (PMC) aims to spread and promote the project management discipline amongst JMSB graduate students MBA and Masters project.management@concordia.ca JMSB Project Management Club The JMSB Project Management Club (PMC) aims to spread and promote the project management discipline amongst JMSB graduate students MBA and Masters JMSBEC JMGSA Connecting JMSB talent interested in entrepreneurship with the right resources through  networking events and competitions jmsbec.mba@gmail.com JMSBEC Connecting JMSB talent interested in entrepreneurship with the right resources through  networking events and competitions John Molson Accounting Society CASA One of the oldest association in JMSB under the CASA umbrella, representing and providing resources to the accounting student body. 1450 Guy, Montreal, QC, MB 4.118 info@jmas.ca https://www.jmas.ca/ John Molson Accounting Society One of the oldest association in JMSB under the CASA umbrella, representing and providing resources to the accounting student body. John Molson Case Committee CASA The John Molson Competition Committee (JMCC) runs the largest case competition program in the world. We select, train, and send undergraduate JMSB stu 1450 Rue Guy, Montreal, QC, Canada, Quebec 5148482424 info@wecompete.ca https://wecompete.ca John Molson Case Committee The John Molson Competition Committee (JMCC) runs the largest case competition program in the world. We select, train, and send undergraduate JMSB stu John Molson Doctoral Student Society JMGSA John Molson Doctoral Student Society jmsb.phd@gmail.com John Molson Doctoral Student Society John Molson Doctoral Student Society John Molson Graduate Investment Club JMGSA Our goal at the JMGIC is to help students achieve financial literacy jmsb.jmgic@gmail.com John Molson Graduate Investment Club Our goal at the JMGIC is to help students achieve financial literacy John Molson Graduate Student Association GSA Official student body representing all graduate John Molson School of Business students president@jmgsa.ca John Molson Graduate Student Association Official student body representing all graduate John Molson School of Business students John Molson Human Resources and Management Association (JHMA) CASA John Molson Human Resources and Management Association (JHMA) info@jhma.ca https://www.jhma.ca/ John Molson Human Resources and Management Association (JHMA) John Molson Human Resources and Management Association (JHMA) John Molson International Exchange Commitee CASA The John Molson International Exchange Committee is a student run organization that has two objectives. First, we help JMSB students achieve their amb info@jic-jmsb.ca https://jicteamcommittee.wixsite.com/john-molson-internat John Molson International Exchange Commitee The John Molson International Exchange Committee is a student run organization that has two objectives. First, we help JMSB students achieve their amb John Molson Marketing Association CASA brings together a group of 17 business undergraduates who strive to bridge thegap between university students and the marketing industry. info@jmma.ca John Molson Marketing Association brings together a group of 17 business undergraduates who strive to bridge thegap between university students and the marketing industry. John Molson Sports Marketing Committee (JMSM) CASA A student run committee for the past 27 years connecting students with industry professionals in the world of sports. 1450 Rue Guy, MB 4-435, Montreal, QC, H3H 0A1 info@jmsm.ca jmsm.ca John Molson Sports Marketing Committee (JMSM) A student run committee for the past 27 years connecting students with industry professionals in the world of sports. John Molson Supply Chain and Business Technology Association CASA Student assocation representing Supply Chain, BTM and Data Intelligence at JMSB info@jsba.ca https://www.jsba.ca John Molson Supply Chain and Business Technology Association Student assocation representing Supply Chain, BTM and Data Intelligence at JMSB John Molson Sustainable Enterprise Committee CASA Sustainability Committee at John Molson jsec.contact@gmail.com http://www.jsecjmsb.ca/ John Molson Sustainable Enterprise Committee Sustainability Committee at John Molson John Molson Undergraduate Case Competition CASA Annual international case competition at JMSB MB 4.433 info@jmucc.ca https://www.jmucc.ca/ John Molson Undergraduate Case Competition Annual international case competition at JMSB John Molson Women in Leadership CASA Empowering women in business through education, engagement, and leadership, fostering gender equality, and practical success skills. info@jmwl.ca https://www.jmwl.ca/ John Molson Women in Leadership Empowering women in business through education, engagement, and leadership, fostering gender equality, and practical success skills. Kappa Phi Beta GLC Sorority kappaphibetamtl@gmail.com www.kappaphibeta.com Kappa Phi Beta Sorority Latin American Student Organization (LASO) IEAC LASO is an organization devoted to promoting Latin American culture and enhancing the student life at Concordia through diverse events and activities. laso.concordia@gmail.com Latin American Student Organization (LASO) LASO is an organization devoted to promoting Latin American culture and enhancing the student life at Concordia through diverse events and activities. Law and Society Student Association ASFA Law and Society Student Association internal.lssa@asfa.ca Law and Society Student Association Law and Society Student Association Lebanese Student Association CSU We welcome towards all Lebanese whether New or Old, as well as anyone else who is interested in learning about Our Culture! LSA@csu.qc.ca Lebanese Student Association We welcome towards all Lebanese whether New or Old, as well as anyone else who is interested in learning about Our Culture! Liberal Arts Society / Societe des Arts Liberaux ASFA LAS represents students who are majoring and minoring in the Western Society and Culture program of the Liberal Arts College of Concordia. coordinator.las@asfa.ca https://liberalartssociety.org/ Liberal Arts Society / Societe des Arts Liberaux LAS represents students who are majoring and minoring in the Western Society and Culture program of the Liberal Arts College of Concordia. Linguistics Student Association ASFA Student memeber association representing the academic body of individuals enrolled in the linguistics program. secretary.lsa@asfa.ca https://www.linguisticsstudentassociation.org/ Linguistics Student Association Student memeber association representing the academic body of individuals enrolled in the linguistics program. Link Newspaper OTHER Independant Multiplatform Publication LB 717 514-848-7406 business@thelinknewspaper.ca https://thelinknewspaper.ca Link Newspaper Independant Multiplatform Publication Management Consulting Concordia CASA Bridge between the Consulting Industry and Concordia students MB S1.447 info@mccjmsb.ca https://www.mcconcordia.com/ Management Consulting Concordia Bridge between the Consulting Industry and Concordia students Master of Fine Arts Studio Arts Student Association (MFASASA) GSA Association organizing events for graduate student in studio arts at Concordia. mfasasa@gmail.com Master of Fine Arts Studio Arts Student Association (MFASASA) Association organizing events for graduate student in studio arts at Concordia. Mathematics, Actuarial and Statistics Student Association ASFA MASSA - Student Association 438-340-6711 massa.concordia@gmail.com Mathematics, Actuarial and Statistics Student Association MASSA - Student Association MBA Society JMGSA Student society for Master of Business Administration programs at JMSB mbasocietyjmsb@gmail.com MBA Society Student society for Master of Business Administration programs at JMSB MedSpecs Concordia CSU CU's first pre-medical group, helping students prepare for a career in medicine. H-711 medspecs@csu.qc.ca https://linktr.ee/medspecs MedSpecs Concordia CU's first pre-medical group, helping students prepare for a career in medicine. MIA Collective FASA MIA (Moving Image Arts) is a Collective that organizes events around the fields of experimental cinema and video art movingimageartscollective@gmail.com MIA Collective MIA (Moving Image Arts) is a Collective that organizes events around the fields of experimental cinema and video art MODE Collective FASA Fine Arts Fashion Club sarakhider7@gmail.com MODE Collective Fine Arts Fashion Club Modern Chinese Language Student Association (MOCHI) ASFA Representing all students registered in the Modern Chinese Language and Culture Program (certificate/minor) President.mochi@asfa.ca Modern Chinese Language Student Association (MOCHI) Representing all students registered in the Modern Chinese Language and Culture Program (certificate/minor) Moot Law Society CSU Our society provides an opportunity to get involved in mooting competitions to all undergraduate students at Concordia. mootlawsociety@csu.qc.ca https://concordiamootlawsociety.com/ Moot Law Society Our society provides an opportunity to get involved in mooting competitions to all undergraduate students at Concordia. Motionball Concordia CSU A national NPO raising funds & awareness for Special Olympics Canada Foundation through inclusive sport and social events. ConUmotionball@csu.qc.ca Motionball Concordia A national NPO raising funds & awareness for Special Olympics Canada Foundation through inclusive sport and social events. Music Undergraduate Students Association FASA MUSA aims to promote and represent the interests of its members and create resources and opportunities within the community. music.undergrads.concordia@gmail.com Music Undergraduate Students Association MUSA aims to promote and represent the interests of its members and create resources and opportunities within the community. Muslim Student Association (MSA) CSU The Muslim Students Association (MSA) brings together Muslim students to provide resources, essential services, and educational tools. H-711 msaconcordia@csu.qc.ca https://linktr.ee/msaconcordia Muslim Student Association (MSA) The Muslim Students Association (MSA) brings together Muslim students to provide resources, essential services, and educational tools. Naginata Club CSU Martial art known for teaching patience, discipline, grace, cooperation, self-control, self-confidence and respect for self and others. H-711 concordianaginata@csu.qc.ca linktr.ee/concordia_naginata_club Naginata Club Martial art known for teaching patience, discipline, grace, cooperation, self-control, self-confidence and respect for self and others. NanoStride CSU Concordia University's leading AI and Robotics club pushing the boundaries of technology. nanostride@csu.qc.ca nanostride.ca NanoStride Concordia University's leading AI and Robotics club pushing the boundaries of technology. Nigerian Students Association (NSA) CSU Fostering community in a home away from home. K-130 nsaconcordia@csu.qc.ca Nigerian Students Association (NSA) Fostering community in a home away from home. Nyantende Foundation CSU The Nyantende Foundation provides access to education to the economically vulnerable youth of Nyantende. H-711 nfconcordia@csu.qc.ca Nyantende Foundation The Nyantende Foundation provides access to education to the economically vulnerable youth of Nyantende. Otaku Anime of Concordia University CSU The Otaku Anime of Concordia is a club where students are able to gather during their free time to meet with people interested in Japanese animation. H-711 otakuanime@csu.qc.ca Otaku Anime of Concordia University The Otaku Anime of Concordia is a club where students are able to gather during their free time to meet with people interested in Japanese animation. Painting and Drawing Student Association FASA We organize events for art students to help them learn how to share their work, get exposure, and prepare them for professional arts practice. painting.drawing@concordia.ca https://paintingdrawingcon.wixsite.com/pdsa Painting and Drawing Student Association We organize events for art students to help them learn how to share their work, get exposure, and prepare them for professional arts practice. Pakistani Student Association CSU A registered Student Association under Concordia University. concordiapsa@csu.qc.ca Pakistani Student Association A registered Student Association under Concordia University. People's Potato OTHER Community Soup kitchen peoplespotato@gmail.com 514-848-2424 (7590) peoplespotato@gmail.com https://www.peoplespotato.com People's Potato Community Soup kitchen Political Science Graduate Student Association GSA Recognizing the diverse interests and needs of the Concordia University Political Science Graduate Students, the Political Science Graduate Student As PSGSA Office, Hall Building 1241 psgsaconu2024@outlook.com https://psgsaconcordia.wixsite.com/psgsa Political Science Graduate Student Association Recognizing the diverse interests and needs of the Concordia University Political Science Graduate Students, the Political Science Graduate Student As Political Science Student Association (PSSA) ASFA Accredited representatives of all Political Science students since 2015 H-1208 internal@pssa.ca https://www.pssa.ca/ Political Science Student Association (PSSA) Accredited representatives of all Political Science students since 2015 Power to Change CSU We help students take their next steps to discover Jesus. H-711 p2c@csu.qc.ca Power to Change We help students take their next steps to discover Jesus. QPIRG Concordia OTHER A resource centre for student and community research and organizing that aims to connect the campus to grassroots community struggles. 514-848-7585 info@qpirgconcordia.org QPIRG Concordia A resource centre for student and community research and organizing that aims to connect the campus to grassroots community struggles. Queer Print Club FASA QPC is a safer, non-hierarchical space for 2SLGBTQIA+ students interested in print. It is a place VA-035 1395 Blvd. Rene Levesque W. Montreal, QC queerprintclub@gmail.com Queer Print Club QPC is a safer, non-hierarchical space for 2SLGBTQIA+ students interested in print. It is a place Right To Move / La Voie Libre OTHER Community bike workshop 2150 rue Bishop (514)999-4885 righttomove@gmail.com https://www.rtm-lvl.org/ Right To Move / La Voie Libre Community bike workshop SAGE (Student Association for Graduates in English) GSA SAGE?s purpose is to enrich the academic, creative, and social life of all MA and Ph.D. students enrolled in the English graduate program. sage@concordia.ca https://sageconu.wordpress.com/ SAGE (Student Association for Graduates in English) SAGE?s purpose is to enrich the academic, creative, and social life of all MA and Ph.D. students enrolled in the English graduate program. Sailing Club CSU Sailing Club at Concordia University H-711 sailingclub@csu.qc.ca Sailing Club Sailing Club at Concordia University School of Community and Public Affairs Student Association ASFA The SCPASA provides advocacy for students of the School of Community and Public Affairs | L'AEEAPC offre un plaidoyer aux eleves de l'Ecole 2149 Mackay St., Montreal QC H3G 2J2 executive.scpasa@asfa.ca https://scpasa.ca School of Community and Public Affairs Student Association The SCPASA provides advocacy for students of the School of Community and Public Affairs | L'AEEAPC offre un plaidoyer aux eleves de l'Ecole Science College Student Association (SCSA) ASFA The Science College offers a Minor in Multidisciplinary Studies in Science. social.scsa@asfa.ca Science College Student Association (SCSA) The Science College offers a Minor in Multidisciplinary Studies in Science. SCORE Association CSU Offer students in the music and fine arts faculty practical job experience through field-related projects. H-711 scoreassociation@csu.qc.ca https://www.scoreassociation.ca/ SCORE Association Offer students in the music and fine arts faculty practical job experience through field-related projects. Scribbles Magazine CSU Founded in March 2019, Scribbles represents Concordia's creative English magazine. scribbles@csu.qc.ca https://www.scribblesmagazine.com/ Scribbles Magazine Founded in March 2019, Scribbles represents Concordia's creative English magazine. SEIZE Concordia OTHER SEIZE organizes, educates and incubates in support of the social solidarity economy. general@solidarityeconomy.ca https://www.solidarityeconomy.ca/ SEIZE Concordia SEIZE organizes, educates and incubates in support of the social solidarity economy. Sex and Self CSU We strive to encourage individuals to achieve agency over their bodies through educational empowerment. H-711 sexandselfconcordia@csu.qc.ca https://www.sexandself.com Sex and Self We strive to encourage individuals to achieve agency over their bodies through educational empowerment. Shidokan Kendo & Iaido Club CSU This club teaches, not only the physical aspect of Japanese fencing, but also the spiritual and mental aspects. The club is open to all levels. shidokankendo@csu.qc.ca https://shidokanmontreal.ca/ Shidokan Kendo & Iaido Club This club teaches, not only the physical aspect of Japanese fencing, but also the spiritual and mental aspects. The club is open to all levels. Sikh Students Association CSU Concordia Sikh Students Association is an organization focused on the Sikh faith. H-711 cssa@csu.qc.ca Sikh Students Association Concordia Sikh Students Association is an organization focused on the Sikh faith. Socialist Fightback CSU Fightback is building a revolutionary Marxist organization in Canada, Quebec and internationally. H-711 socialistfightback@csu.qc.ca www.marxist.ca Socialist Fightback Fightback is building a revolutionary Marxist organization in Canada, Quebec and internationally. Sociology and Anthropology Graduate Student Association (SAGSA) GSA Sub departmental GSA sagsa.concordia@gmail.com https://www.concordia.ca/artsci/sociology-anthropology/student-life/sagsa.html Sociology and Anthropology Graduate Student Association (SAGSA) Sub departmental GSA Software Engineering and Computer Science Society (SCS) ECA Student society focused on developing a community around software engineering, computer science and computer engineering. scs.president@ecaconcordia.ca https://scsconcordia.com/ Software Engineering and Computer Science Society (SCS) Student society focused on developing a community around software engineering, computer science and computer engineering. Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights (SPHR) CSU Student-run organization dedicated to advocating for social justice and defending the rights of the Palestinian people. sphrconcordia@csu.qc.ca Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights (SPHR) Student-run organization dedicated to advocating for social justice and defending the rights of the Palestinian people. Space Concordia ECA Space Concordia is a cutting-edge student space program dedicated to the inspiration and education of the next generation of space engineers. 1550 De Maisonneuve West, 1550 Boul. de Maisonneuve Ouest,  Montreal, Quebec H3G 2E9 (Room H965) 438-868-3012 president@spaceconcordia.ca https://spaceconcordia.ca Space Concordia Space Concordia is a cutting-edge student space program dedicated to the inspiration and education of the next generation of space engineers. Stronger Than Stigma CSU A student run initiative focused on helping students overcome the social barriers that surround mental health. stsconcordia@csu.qc.ca https://www.wellmtl.ca/stronger-than-stigma Stronger Than Stigma A student run initiative focused on helping students overcome the social barriers that surround mental health. Students of History at Concordia (SHAC) ASFA Undergraduate Student Association for History Students administration.shac@asfa.ca www.shac.online Students of History at Concordia (SHAC) Undergraduate Student Association for History Students Sustainability Action Fund OTHER Fee-levy that offers funding for student SZ-204.1 executivedirector@safconcordia.ca safconcordia.ca Sustainability Action Fund Fee-levy that offers funding for student Sustainable Concordia OTHER Sustainable Concordia is a fee levy group registered as a non-profit organisation. Our mission is to push for a sustainable culture at Concordia 2090 rue Mackay, S-Z204.1 (514) 848-2424(Ext:5829) internal@sustainableconcordia.ca http://sustainableconcordia.ca/ Sustainable Concordia Sustainable Concordia is a fee levy group registered as a non-profit organisation. Our mission is to push for a sustainable culture at Concordia Syrian Students Association CSU Our goal is to promote diversity, and equality, and help newcomers integrate into the Canadian Society. P-206 ssa.concordia@csu.qc.ca Syrian Students Association Our goal is to promote diversity, and equality, and help newcomers integrate into the Canadian Society. Tedx Club CSU TEDx will organize a multidisciplinary conference each year to spread innovative ideas on current issues in different fields. H-711 TEDx@csu.qc.ca Tedx Club TEDx will organize a multidisciplinary conference each year to spread innovative ideas on current issues in different fields. TESLSA  (Teaching English as a Second Language Student Association) ASFA Student association for Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL) teslsaconcordia@gmail.com www.teslsaconcordia.ca TESLSA  (Teaching English as a Second Language Student Association) Student association for Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL) The Concordia Undergraduate Journal of Art History FASA Undergraduate art history journal with an annual publication and conference, centered around undergraduate writing and the publication process. EV 3-780 thecujah@gmail.com https://www.thecujah.com/ The Concordia Undergraduate Journal of Art History Undergraduate art history journal with an annual publication and conference, centered around undergraduate writing and the publication process. The Concordian OTHER Independent student-run newspaper since 1973. Weekly online news, podcast, and newsletters. Print issues distributed biweekly on a campus near you! CC-431 7141 Rue Sherbrooke OMontreal, QC H4B 1R6 managing@theconcordian.com https://theconcordian.com The Concordian Independent student-run newspaper since 1973. Weekly online news, podcast, and newsletters. Print issues distributed biweekly on a campus near you! The Economics Graduate Students' Association of Concordia University GSA EGSA represents all economics graduate students at the Faculty of Arts and Science of Concordia University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Department of Economics, Room H1136 egsaconcordia@gmail.com The Economics Graduate Students' Association of Concordia University EGSA represents all economics graduate students at the Faculty of Arts and Science of Concordia University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. The Refugee Centre OTHER We are a Canadian non-profit that provides a sustainable structure  ofintegration for refugees and immigrants in Canada. 1610 Saint Catherine West , #402 H3H 2S2 5148460005 info@therefugeecentre.org www.therefugeecentre.org The Refugee Centre We are a Canadian non-profit that provides a sustainable structure  ofintegration for refugees and immigrants in Canada. The StartUp Nation CSU Focused on innovation, technology, business, and art. enrich students with identity, achievements, and culture of the nation of Israel . thestartupnation@csu.qc.ca The StartUp Nation Focused on innovation, technology, business, and art. enrich students with identity, achievements, and culture of the nation of Israel . Troitsky Bridge Building Competition ECA The team planning the 40th annual Troitsky Bridge Building Competition president.troitsky@ecaconcordia.ca https://troitsky.ca Troitsky Bridge Building Competition The team planning the 40th annual Troitsky Bridge Building Competition UAV Concordia ECA Engineering association under ECA that focuses on custom made autonomous drones info@uavconcordia.ca http://uavconcordia.ca/home UAV Concordia Engineering association under ECA that focuses on custom made autonomous drones United for Literacy CSU A Canada-wide volunteer-based literacy organization. K-110 unitedforliteracy@csu.qc.ca https://www.unitedforliteracy.ca United for Literacy A Canada-wide volunteer-based literacy organization. Urban Planning Association (UPA) ASFA Student association of the Arts and Science Federation of Associations (ASFA), representing students of Urban Planning and Urban Studies at Concordia H1238.00 president.upa@asfa.ca Urban Planning Association (UPA) Student association of the Arts and Science Federation of Associations (ASFA), representing students of Urban Planning and Urban Studies at Concordia Vietnamese Concordia Association CSU Together, we thrive for a stronger community in Concordia and Montreal. H-711 vca@csu.qc.ca linktr.ee/vca.concordia Vietnamese Concordia Association Together, we thrive for a stronger community in Concordia and Montreal. Women In Business Club JMGSA is an association open to all women - currently enrolled in a program at the John Molson School of Business. jmwibc@gmail.com Women In Business Club is an association open to all women - currently enrolled in a program at the John Molson School of Business. Women In Engineering ECA Engineering student association centerred around women in STEM specifically and their challenges and how to overcome them president.wie@ecaconcordia.ca https://www.womeninengineeringconcordia.com/ Women In Engineering Engineering student association centerred around women in STEM specifically and their challenges and how to overcome them We can't find a match. Try adjusting your search or filter selection. Can't find a student group? Student group registration is valid for the current academic year only. Keep checking our list to find one that interests you or start your own student group. Groups can register at any time. Re-register a group Start your own group