At last, a newsletter that works Sign-up today to: STAY SMART Be first in line for courses, programs and workshops STAY CONNECTED Find out what’s happening in the professional development world STAY ON TOP Be even better at what you do Invest in your future Workshops, courses and programs. Find your fit. Winter session Our sizzling slate of new offerings kicks off on January 15 Browse our lineup COMING THIS WINTER: Diploma in Entrepreneurship and Online Business REGISTER NOW Previous Next Workshops 3-14 hours Efficient training that promotes curiosity, confidence and personal growth. Explore our workshops Courses 20-60 hours À la carte learning that imparts practical skills from industry experts. Learn something new Corporate training Personalized Practical training that ensures your team is consistently performing at its best. Elevate your organization Programs 3-7 courses A comprehensive exploration into in-demand subjects. Pivot to a new passion Upcoming workshops Managing Difficult Situations in the Workplace December 5 Register now Effective Business Writing January 23 Register now Fostering Well-Being in the Workplace January 30 Register now Explore more English language testing We offer CAEL, CELPIP and IELTS testing. Get started Testimonials Lifelong learning at a great institution. I have taken 35 courses over the years at CCE and have great respect and admiration for their faculty and administration staff. 'Once you stop learning, you start dying' — Albert Einstein. Robert Gadler, Sales Manager In addition to being an amazing teacher with excellent knowledge of Digital Marketing, Tarek Riman goes the extra mile to give real-life examples and exercises to his students, and provides a variety of tips and tools that can be used beyond the classroom. Emilie Luneau, Business Analyst The Digital Marketing Diploma is a great fit for those wanting to keep up with the new era of digitalization. Sandra Carpanzano, Digital Marketing and Communications Strategist The instructors not only taught us concepts from the textbook but also provided industry insight. They gave me the knowledge I needed to find a professional job in Canada. Zhou QingWei, Applications Engineer II Our partners Previous Next